Top 10 Stations for Starting a Ride/ Top 10 Stations for Ending a Ride
In order to identify the top 10 stations for starting and ending a ride, the criteria was based on total number of trips. The stations with the highest level of traffic to and from them can be viewed as the most popular by the riders. A few explanations for the popularity of these stations are that these stations are most likely in high populated and easy to get to areas, traffic may be a problem in these areas so biking may be the quickest way to get around and these may be the most common destinations for people in the area for work, leisure, or shopping. There may also be more bikes available in these areas compared to other areas.
Gender Breakdown of Riders – Phenomenon 
The majority of riders are male. 52% male vs 27% female. 21% of the total riders for June did not specify a gender. This alone is interesting, however, even if those unknown riders were all female, there would still be more male riders than females. For marketing purposes, it would be good to look into this discrepancy to try to increase female riders. What entices males riders to ride? Why aren’t female riders riding? Why are there so many unknown genders? This chart highlights a lot of questions to answer in order to best target new riders and keep existing riders riding. 
Maps
Bike Map Over Time (Days)
This map shows the number of rides to and from each station on each day in June. It also breaks up the map by zip code. With this breakout, it is clear to see that the highest number of stations and the highest number of rides is within the zip codes of 07302 and 07303. The number of rides from each station remains pretty steady throughout June. There seems to be a small increase in some stations on the weekends. This is important to note for the month. It may be worth looking into running some specials for ride discounts or promotions in order to increase the number of rides at specific times throughout the month.
Most Popular Stations - Start and Stop
This map shows the most popular stations by number of rides. It looks like the top two stations are Liberty Light Rail and Newport PKWY. These two stations have the highest number of riders both starting and ending their rides. Some other more popular stations (light green color) are within the zip codes of 07302 and 07303 where the majority of the stations are. It would be worth looking into why these stations are the most popular. Are they nicer? Do they have more bikes available? Are they in more populated areas? These questions can help to answer why these stations are being used compared to other stations and help to increase riders at the other stations.
Bikes Due for Repair/Inspection based on Trip Duration
BikeIDs with the highest overall time spent on trips are most likely due for inspection and repair this month. Having a threshold for trip duration whether it is number of miles or time would be important. Whenever a bike hits this threshold, the bike would then undergo inspection and any necessary repairs. This would be worth looking at each month, or another specified period of time, to keep the bikes up to date and safe for the riders.
Average Trip by Age – Phenomenon
The top graph in this pair shows the total number of riders by age. Interestingly enough, the age with the highest number of riders by far are 51 year olds. The bottom graph shows the average trip duration for each age. The age group with the highest average trip duration are 71 year olds. It is worth noting that there are some other spikes in trip duration at the ages of 67, 51 and 18 year olds. This is a wide group of ages who all most likely use the bikes for different reasons. Again, for marketing purposes it would be worth looking into this and finding out those reasons for targeting purposes. Also, to find out how to target ages that aren’t riding as often. 

Other Notes:
Both phenomena stand out and are very interesting for marketing purposes. Age and gender are both demographics that help advertisers create a target audience to best spend their advertising dollars. Ads can be created to target specific groups like those who are already riding (males and 51 year olds) in order to keep them riding and possibly reach more people who fit that criteria. Also, this data can help show the demographics that aren’t riding much, if at all. This is important to look into in order to expand the business and grow revenue. 
